# Contributing to the Firefox OS codebase

This document provides an overview of Firefox OS development process, contribute paths, tools and tips to work in the awesome world of Firefox OS. It also shows how developers can participate in the evolution of all the components that makes real Firefox OS and its open source community by developing and contributing new and improved functionality. 

## To know about Firefox OS
Gaia, is the suite of HTML 5-based applications that provide the graphical user interface layer in Firefox OS. These apps are commonly referred to as the core system apps, and they make up the environment in which users interact with their device hardware via Firefox OS. Gaia helps deliver a smart phone experience that is engaging, intuitive, and empowering. All of the apps included in Gaia are built using open web technologies. These apps provide core functionality for mobile device users, such as phone and call history, email and messaging, call history and contacts, camera and media, and so on. Operators can customize out-of-the-box Gaia in order to tailor the user experience for their customers. Customization occurs through branding, bundling of applications, and customization of the Gaia environment and settings in the Firefox OS platform. Gaia is provided by Mozilla in conjunction with Operator-specified preferences.

Gecko is the open source browser engine designed to support open Internet standards such as HTML 4, CSS 1 and 2, the W3C DOM, XML, JavaScript, and others. Gecko is used in multiple browsers, including Mozilla Firefox, SeaMonkey, Camino, and others. Gecko is continuously under development at mozilla.org. Gecko has been known previously by the code names "Raptor" and "NGLayout"; the new name was chosen following a trademark infringement dispute.

Gonk is the kernel-level component in the Firefox OS stack that serves as the interface between Gecko and the underlying hardware. Gonk controls the underlying hardware and exposes hardware capabilities to Web APIs implemented in Gecko. Gonk can be seen as the "black box" that does all the complex, detailed work behind the scenes to control the mobile device by enacting requests at the hardware level.